docs/source/index.rst, before:

Welcome to LAIR's documentation!
================================

:code:`lair` is a collection of tools that I have developed/acquired for my
research regarding land-air interactions. I spent a lot of time developing
the :code:`uataq` subpackage which provides a simple interface for reading
in data from the Utah Atmospheric Trace Gas and Air Quality (UATAQ)
project - the idea being that we as scientists spend too much time on data
wrangling and not enough time on analysis. The :code:`lair` package is designed
to make it easier to work with atmospheric data, particularly data from the
UATAQ project.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   air <air>
   config <config>
   constants <constants>
   uataq <uataq/index>
   utils <utils>
   valley <valley>

.. grid:: 1 2 3 4
   :margin: 4 4 0 0
   :gutter: 1

   .. grid-item-card:: :fas:`wind` Air
      :link: air
      :link-type: doc

      Various modules for working with atmospheric data.

   .. grid-item-card:: :fas:`gear` Config
      :link: config
      :link-type: doc

      Configuration settings for the package.

   .. grid-item-card:: :math:`\pi` Constants
      :link: constants
      :link-type: doc

      Mathematical & scientific constants.

   .. grid-item-card:: :octicon:`table` UATAQ
      :link: uataq/index
      :link-type: doc

      Utah Atmospheric Trace-gas & Air Quality data.

   .. grid-item-card:: :fas:`screwdriver-wrench` Utils
      :link: utils
      :link-type: doc

      Utility classes & functions.

   .. grid-item-card:: :fas:`map` Valley
      :link: valley
      :link-type: doc

      Salt Lake Valley measurements map.

Installation
============

``lair`` can be installed via ``pip``:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install git+https://github.com/jmineau/lair.git

or by cloning the repository and installing it as an editable package:

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/jmineau/lair.git
   cd lair
   pip install -e .

Optional Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``lair`` is a rather dependecy-heavy package, however, many are common in the field of atmospheric science. To keep ``lair`` as lightweight as possible, some dependencies related to meteorology are currently optional. These include:

- ``boto3``
- ``metpy``
- ``s3fs``
- ``siphon``
- ``synopticpy``
- ``zarr``

The following modules are impacted:

- ``lair.air.hrrr``
- ``lair.air.soundings``

Installing Optional Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install the optional dependencies, use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   # via conda (preferred on CHPC)
   conda activate <lair-env>  # activate your lair environment
   conda install -c conda-forge boto3 metpy s3fs siphon synopticpy zarr

   # via pip
   pip install git+https://github.com/jmineau/lair.git[met]

Verbosity
=========

Verbosity for the ``lair`` package is set via ``lair.config.verbose`` as a boolean.

For early versions of the package, ``verbose`` will be set to ``True`` by default. This will be changed in future versions.

Acknowledgements
================

This package was partially inspired and uses some code generously provided by Brian Blaylock's Carpenter Workshop https://github.com/blaylockbk/Carpenter_Workshop.

Disclaimer
==========

* Portions of this package were written with AI-based tools including Github CoPilot, ChatGPT, and Google Gemini.
* Additionally, various code snippets were borrowed from StackOverflow and other online resources.

Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome! Please take a look at current `issues <https://github.com/jmineau/lair/issues>`_ and feel free to submit a pull request with new features or bug fixes.

.. important::

   Please document your code using `numpydoc <https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html>`_ style docstrings.

Citation
========

If you use any portion of this package in your research, please cite the software and/or acknowledge me.

A DOI will be provided in the future.

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

need to install esmpy via conda first

docs/source/index.rst, after:

Welcome to LAIR's documentation!
================================

:code:`lair` is a collection of tools that I have developed/acquired for my
research regarding land-air interactions. I spent a lot of time developing
the :code:`uataq` subpackage which provides a simple interface for reading
in data from the Utah Atmospheric Trace Gas and Air Quality (UATAQ)
project - the idea being that we as scientists spend too much time on data
wrangling and not enough time on analysis. The :code:`lair` package is designed
to make it easier to work with atmospheric data, particularly data from the
UATAQ project.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   air <air>
   config <config>
   constants <constants>
   uataq <uataq/index>
   utils <utils>
   valley <valley>

.. grid:: 1 2 3 4
   :margin: 4 4 0 0
   :gutter: 1

   .. grid-item-card:: :fas:`wind` Air
      :link: air
      :link-type: doc

      Various modules for working with atmospheric data.

   .. grid-item-card:: :fas:`gear` Config
      :link: config
      :link-type: doc

      Configuration settings for the package.

   .. grid-item-card:: :math:`\pi` Constants
      :link: constants
      :link-type: doc

      Mathematical & scientific constants.

   .. grid-item-card:: :octicon:`table` UATAQ
      :link: uataq/index
      :link-type: doc

      Utah Atmospheric Trace-gas & Air Quality data.

   .. grid-item-card:: :fas:`screwdriver-wrench` Utils
      :link: utils
      :link-type: doc

      Utility classes & functions.

   .. grid-item-card:: :fas:`map` Valley
      :link: valley
      :link-type: doc

      Salt Lake Valley measurements map.

Installation
============

The ``lair`` package is installable from the git repository via ``pip``, however, some dependencies can only be installed via ``conda``.
Additionally, many components of ``lair`` require access to CHPC which encourages the use of ``conda``. Therefore, we recommend using ``conda`` to install the package.

.. important::

   If you are using CHPC, it is assumed that ``miniforge3`` is installed following the instructions at https://www.chpc.utah.edu/documentation/software/python-anaconda.php

To create a new conda environment for ``lair``, use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   mamba create -n lair -c conda-forge python=3.10 esmpy

If you already have a conda environment, simply install the dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

   mamba activate <lair-env>
   mamba install -c conda-forge esmpy

.. note::

   ``lair`` requires Python 3.10 or higher.

Now we can install the package via ``pip``. Either directly from the git repository:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install git+https://github.com/jmineau/lair.git

or by cloning the repository and installing it as an editable package:

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/jmineau/lair.git
   cd lair
   pip install -e .

Optional Dependencies
---------------------

``lair`` is a rather dependecy-heavy package, however, many are common in the field of atmospheric science. To keep ``lair`` as lightweight as possible, some dependencies related to meteorology are currently optional. These include:

- ``boto3``
- ``metpy``
- ``s3fs``
- ``siphon``
- ``synopticpy``
- ``zarr``

The following modules are impacted:

- ``lair.air.hrrr``
- ``lair.air.soundings``

To install the optional dependencies, use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   # via conda (preferred on CHPC)
   conda activate <lair-env>  # activate your lair environment
   conda install -c conda-forge boto3 metpy s3fs siphon synopticpy zarr

   # via pip
   pip install git+https://github.com/jmineau/lair.git[met]

Verbosity
=========

Verbosity for the ``lair`` package is set via ``lair.config.verbose`` as a boolean.

For early versions of the package, ``verbose`` will be set to ``True`` by default. This will be changed in future versions.

Acknowledgements
================

This package was partially inspired and uses some code generously provided by Brian Blaylock's Carpenter Workshop https://github.com/blaylockbk/Carpenter_Workshop.

Disclaimer
==========

* Portions of this package were written with AI-based tools including Github CoPilot, ChatGPT, and Google Gemini.
* Additionally, various code snippets were borrowed from StackOverflow and other online resources.

Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome! Please take a look at current `issues <https://github.com/jmineau/lair/issues>`_ and feel free to submit a pull request with new features or bug fixes.

.. important::

   Please document your code using `numpydoc <https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html>`_ style docstrings.

Citation
========

If you use any portion of this package in your research, please cite the software and/or acknowledge me.

A DOI will be provided in the future.

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
